Before we really dive into any specifics of asynchronous programming,
let's get a general picture of what we're talking about.
Writing programs that do one thing at a time,
like the JavaScript programs we've written so far that run
one line at a time are fairly easy to reason about.
Write the logic for one step at a time and then put them in order.
All you need to think about is what happens next.
Like the diagram here shows in the JavaScript programs we've written so far,
we know that one task must be worked to completion before the next construct.
What this means is that even if a task is just
waiting for an IO operation to complete or is somehow idle,
the whole program cannot progress until the task is completed.
But as you can see, this isn't very efficient.
We want to do something more like this,
where if a particular task is waiting on an external event,
our program can move past it to continue to work on other tasks.
This is asynchronous programming in a nutshell.
How to schedule these tasks and reason about more complicated flows will be the focus of
the rest of this course and you will find yourself
needing this all the time in real life.
Some of the places asynchronous code is necessary are APIs or
any external processes and
long running processes like reading files or uploading files or things like that.
Asynchronous code isn't only for dealing with processes happening elsewhere.
It can also be a strategy for writing
programs that make better use of your computer's resources.
Most modern languages have built-in functionality to
allow developers to create and manage asynchronous programs.
We will cover both aspects and uses of asynchronous code in this course
and I'll explain not only the syntax but the reasoning behind when and where to use it.